# Movie recommendation engine using Singular Vector Decomposition (SVD) and content based filtering
1. Developed a hybrid model wherein I stack two different models.The movie recommended by Content-Based Filtering is passed to SVD model which predicts the rating the user will give to the recommended movie. Finally, we return the movies in the descending order of SVD predicted ratings.
2. The dataset chosen for this assignment is “MovieLens 20M Dataset” . Due to high computation, I have selected first 1 million anonymous ratings and their corresponding movies.
3. We have used the “Surprise library” that provided various ready-to-use powerful prediction algorithms including (SVD) to evaluate its RMSE.
4. Mean RMSE after cross validation with CV = 5 was 0.8344 which is pretty good. Although we did not actually use the genre of the movie as a feature, the truncated matrix factorization features "picked up" on the underlying tastes and preferences of the user.
5. Showing the right recommendations results in improved user engagement and in turn results in higher revenues. As per the algorithms implemented in the project, one recommendation system can have combination of algorithms as per different scenarios. So, if we have a metadata about the Movies i.e. genre, artists, production house, then, on basis of that we can recommend movies to user. User-user filtering suffers from the cold start problem. The system needs to wait until the user views some movies and rates them. Only then similar users can be found, and recommendations can be made. However, Item-Item filtering overcomes this problem by finding similarity between items and recommending relevant items to users Further, SVD model approaches the problem by Matrix Factorization and dimensionality reduction. The Hybrid model we developed, filters the results further and provides accurate recommendation of movies. Hence, our objective of creating a hybrid model to make better and personalized recommendations for each user has been achieved.
## Dataset: 
The dataset chosen for this project is “MovieLens 20M Dataset” . The datasets describe ratings and free-text tagging activities from MovieLens, a movie recommendation service. It contains 20000263 ratings and 465564 tag applications across 27278 movies. Due to high computation, I have selected first 1 million anonymous ratings and their corresponding movies.

https://www.kaggle.com/grouplens/movielens-20m-dataset
